docs/rst/developer_documentation/library_architecture.rst, before:

.. include:: ../include/aliases.rst

.. _dev_docs_library_architecture:

Library Architecture
====================

.. warning::

    This section is under construction, so information might be incomplete or missing.

*GNSS Interface* is divided into three levels (from outer to inner):

1. **API level**: This level contains all public API, i.e. the classes in the ``include`` directory.
2. **Implementation level**: This level contains all the internal classes which provide functionality to the library.
3. **Serial interface level**: This level contains the classes for interacting with the serial port (through Asio)


.. _dev_docs_libs_arch_serial:

Serial Interface Level
----------------------

The serial interface level is comprised of the |SerialInterface-api| class, which provides member functions to open and
close a serial port, as well as for reading data from it.
|SerialInterface-api| is a template class with a template parameter :class:`SerialPort` that defines the serial port
implementation, which defaults to :class: :class:`asio::serial_port`.

.. uml:: ../../uml/SerialInterface.puml

Commit message:

GnssInterfaceImpl unit tests (#48)
* Refs #22: Implementation level design

Signed-off-by: Eduardo Ponz Segrelles <eduardoponz@eprosima.com>

* Refs #22: Fix ReturnCode enum

Signed-off-by: Eduardo Ponz Segrelles <eduardoponz@eprosima.com>

* Refs #22: GnssInterfaceImpl unit tests design

Signed-off-by: Eduardo Ponz Segrelles <eduardoponz@eprosima.com>

* Refs #22: Add is_none() to Bitmask

Signed-off-by: Eduardo Ponz Segrelles <eduardoponz@eprosima.com>

* Refs #22: Add virtual destructor to SerialInterface

Signed-off-by: Eduardo Ponz Segrelles <eduardoponz@eprosima.com>

* Refs #22: GnssInterfaceImpl unit tests implementation

Signed-off-by: Eduardo Ponz Segrelles <eduardoponz@eprosima.com>

* Refs #22: Update test desing with timeout

Signed-off-by: Eduardo Ponz Segrelles <eduardoponz@eprosima.com>

docs/rst/developer_documentation/library_architecture.rst, after:

.. include:: ../include/aliases.rst

.. _dev_docs_library_architecture:

Library Architecture
====================

.. warning::

    This section is under construction, so information might be incomplete or missing.

*GNSS Interface* is divided into three levels (from outer to inner):

1. **API level**: This level contains all public API, i.e. the classes in the ``include`` directory.
2. **Implementation level**: This level contains all the internal classes which provide functionality to the library.
3. **Serial interface level**: This level contains the classes for interacting with the serial port (through Asio)

.. _dev_docs_libs_arch_impl:

Implementation Level
--------------------

The implementation level's main component is the |GnssInterfaceImpl-api| class, which provides with implementation for
the |GnssInterface-api| public API, i.e opening and closing the serial port, waiting until data of one or more NMEA 0183
types has been received, checking whether the serial port connection is opened, and taking the next unread sample of a
given NMEA 0183 type.
The |GnssInterfaceImpl-api| holds a |FixedSizeQueue-api| of ten elements for each supported
NMEA 0183 type.
This way, keeping outdated samples, as well as dynamic allocation of data samples, is avoided.
The managing of the serial port is enable through the |SerialInterface-api| class.

.. uml:: ../../uml/GnssInterfaceImpl.puml

.. _dev_docs_libs_arch_serial:

Serial Interface Level
----------------------

The serial interface level is comprised of the |SerialInterface-api| class, which provides member functions to open and
close a serial port, as well as for reading data from it.
|SerialInterface-api| is a template class with a template parameter :class:`SerialPort` that defines the serial port
implementation, which defaults to :class: :class:`asio::serial_port`.

.. uml:: ../../uml/SerialInterface.puml
